Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to show a drama and sci-fi
film called, “Arrival.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Louise Banks gives birth to a daughter and
watches her grow into a young woman, only
to see her succumb to a rare and incurable
disease.
She is heartbroken and her life is changed
forever.
It starts on the day they arrived.
Louise is a linguist professor at a local
university.
She’s walking to her first class in the
morning when she notices the ruckus around
the television in the common areas.
There’s a strange hum in the air this morning
but she ignores it.
She greets her class but finds the students
too distracted with their phones to pay attention.
One student asks her to turn on the television.
On the screen, breaking news is being broadcasted.
An unidentified flying object has landed in
Montana and eight more have landed in locations
around the world.
Just then, the university alarm rings and
Louise dismisses her class.
As she goes home, she finds the world changed
and in turmoil.
People are evacuating, jets flying overhead,
and the military taking over.
At home, Louise watches the news and learns
that twelve of the unidentified objects have
landed.
Unsure of what to do, she goes to work the
next day only to find classes indefinitely
suspended.
She stays in her office and tunes in to live
updates.
Just then, two men visit her in her office.
It’s Colonel G.T. Webber from Army Intelligence.
She remembers him from that time she helped
in the translations with some insurgents.
Webber tells her that she’s the top choice
for translations and that’s why he’s in
her office and not at Berkley’s.
He plays her a recording of a human speaking
to an entity giving out low growls.
Louise knows that it’s an entity from the
objects.
She tells Webber that it’s impossible to
translate it unless she was in the same room
with the speaker, observing because this is
a language that doesn’t exist on Earth.
Webber takes this as a ploy for her to be
part of the scene but he refuses.
He doesn’t want the research center to become
a tourist site for anyone who has top security
clearance.
He tells Louise that if he leaves now, her
chance is gone.
He walks away but Louise calls out to him.
She asks if they’re going to ask Danvers
next, another linguist, and tells him that
before they commit to him, ask him the Sanskrit
word for war and its translation.
Later that night, Louise falls asleep in front
of the news when she wakes up to a helicopter
landing in her backyard.
Webber has returned and asks her for the meaning
of “Gavisti,” the Sanskrit word for “war,”
and Louise replies, “A desire for more cows.”
Webber knows that Louise is more capable to
take on the job and orders her to be ready
in ten minutes.
Louise joins the team on the helicopter and
meets Dr. Ian Donnelly, a theoretical physicist
whom she will be closely working with.
Webber tells her that the first priority is
to know what they want and where they’re
from.
They arrive at the Montana site and are briefed
with the protocol and whisked away to Dr.
Kettler who gives them some immunization shots.
Louise arrives at the main control room and
learns that the site is communicating with
the other sites.
She meets Agent Halpern from the C.I.A. who
tells her that they haven’t gotten much
information from the object since it landed.
Louise and Ian are taken to another room where
they’re equipped with hazmat suits.
They join a small team and make their way
to the object, now known as the “pod.”
Every 18 hours, a door opens up at the bottom
of the pod and the team goes in via a platform.
Louise watches in awe as they get inside the
pod and feels the deep absurdity of the whole
situation.
Once the platform reaches its limits, the
team jumps into the tunnel, floating their
way to the rectangular light ahead of them.
Louise hesitates, having second thoughts,
but Webber grabs her and they make their way
through the antechamber.
They arrive at the main room and see a glass
wall separating them from the entities inside.
The team places a caged bird on the floor,
indicating that while the bird is still alive,
the oxygen levels in the room are safe.
Soon enough, two giant cephalopod-like creatures
appear behind the glass.
They call the aliens “heptapods,” due
to their seven limbs.
The session is quickly over and they’re
brought to the disinfection room.
Webber tells Louise and Ian that they have
two hours to figure something out.
They continue to listen to the news and watch
as the world burns down in lockdown, riots,
and cult rituals.
Agent Halpern communicates with the other
sites but they too are unsuccessful.
The next day, they are set to enter the pod
again when Louise has an idea.
She brings a whiteboard and a pen, saying
that they might be unable to understand their
spoken language, but they might have a written
basis of the language they’re speaking.
Inside the pod, Louise writes the word, “human,”
and steps forward to show them.
After a few seconds, one of the heptapods
responds, drawing out its limb and creating
a circular symbol with strokes.
It continues giving out different circular
symbols, giving the team its first breakthrough.
Back at the site, Webber questions her if
this is the right approach and how he would
be able to explain it to the upper office.
Louise defends her approach and says that
if they don’t teach the heptapods their
own language, it would lead to a lot of miscommunication
and things will take ten times as long.
Webber agrees for now but requires her to
submit a list of words before the next session.
Louise learns that not all countries are open
to this friendly approach.
The government is afraid that the other countries
would follow General Shang and China’s decision
for a hostile move.
Meanwhile, Louise explains to Webber that
in order to communicate with the heptapods,
they first have to teach them the basics of
the English language before they can move
on to the big question, which is the purpose
of their arrival.
They go back into the pod and Louise introduces
herself.
Sensing the heptapods’s confusion, Louise
walks forward and takes off her hazmat suit.
The team panics but she reassures them it’s
fine and continues with the operation.
She walks to the screen and puts her palm
on the glass.
One of the heptapods follows her action and
they properly introduce themselves again.
Ian unzips his hazmat suit and introduces
himself as well.
She asks them who they are and each of the
heptapods writes their names on the glass.
Ian decides to nickname them Abbott and Costello.
As they get back from the pod, Louise dreams
about her daughter for the first time.
Due to the session’s success, Webber allows
the operation to continue despite the contamination
risks.
Meanwhile, tensions from the soldiers arise
from the camp, not knowing what kind of threat
they’re up against.
Later that night, Louise dreams of her daughter
again.
They are in a field, exploring the flowers
and picking rocks at a nearby creek.
Over the next several weeks, Louise and Ian
continue their research.
Aside from seeing and hearing them, the heptapods
leave no other footprint.
The chemical composition of their spaceship
is unknown.
Assuming that the pods communicate with each
other, they do so without detection.
They also still have no idea why the pods
chose to land on these specific locations.
One of Louise’s first breakthroughs is learning
that there is no correlation between what
a heptapod says and what a heptapod writes.
She also learns that the heptapod’s writing
is semasiographic, which means that it represents
meaning and doesn’t convey sound.
Through the Pakistan site, they learn that
a heptapod’s logogram is free of time.
Their writing has no forward or backward direction.
Linguists like Louise call this non-linear
orthography, which makes them think if this
is also how they process ideas.
Louise and Ian study their language enough
to create their first reply.
Now, they’re working on expanding their
vocabulary which would take another month.
One night after a session, Louise and Ian
hang out at the back of a pickup truck overlooking
the pod.
Ian expresses his admiration for her intelligence
and willingness to keep going and they talk
a little bit about their personal lives.
Louise thinks it’s all up to them now and
Ian is glad that it’s become that way.
Outside the site, the world hasn’t coped
well with the presence of the pods.
The looting and riots continue especially
after a leaked photograph of the aliens goes
viral.
The tensions around the site grew worse as
well, with some soldiers thinking it’s better
off to draw the first fire before the aliens’
attack.
On another night of working, Louise dreams
of her daughter again.
She’s showing her a book about planets and
her daughter shows her a picture she drew
for her project in class.
She begins explaining to her why she and her
father aren’t together anymore, but her
daughter says it’s fine.
She’s cut from her daydream by Ian and goes
out to get some air.
She thinks of her again.
This time she sees her as a child and then
later on as a teenager, lying sickly on a
hospital bed.
Later on, Louise finds herself in her room
with Ian who’s discussing with her the Sapir-Whorf
hypothesis, wherein if you immerse yourself
in another language, you can actually rewire
your brain.
He asks if she’s dreaming in her language
and when she looks up, a heptapod is in her
room.
Louise wakes up in her bed, feeling relieved
that it was all a dream.
She meets up with Webber who leads her to
the control room to do a Mandarin translation.
It turns out that their satellite picked up
on a phone conversation with the Chinese military
chief, General Shang.
Louise translates the first sentence, saying
that each of the twelve is offering advanced
technology and that their science team is
attempting to decode the sets.
She tells Webber that she doesn’t understand
the following phrases, suits, honor, and flowers.
He tells her that an hour ago, China mobilized
forces and now Russia is following their lead.
Louise realizes that the phrases belong to
sets in Mahjong tiles and learns that they’re
using a game to converse with their heptapods.
She raises her concerns about how problematic
this is, with every conversation becoming
like a game and every idea expressed through
opposition, victory, and defeat.
Webber then gives her the ultimatum and orders
her to ask the big question, whether they’re
ready or not.
Louise, Ian, and the team enter the pod again.
Louise begins to form her logograms, asking
the heptapods their purpose.
Costello responds with a message saying, “offer
weapon.”
Back at the site, an argument ensues between
Louise, Webber, and Agent Halpern.
Louise insists that the heptapods may not
know the difference between a weapon and a
tool, and with the complex human language,
sometimes one can be both.
Ian adds that they don’t know if the heptapods
are offering a weapon or asking them to offer
one, as the beginning of a trade.
The only way to know the difference between
the two is to go back in.
A call interrupts their meeting and Agent
Halpern offers his theory that this is the
way for the aliens to divide them and make
them fight amongst each other.
The council disbands and Louise and Ian feel
defeated.
Back at the control room, chaos is unraveling.
China and Russia have received the same message,
misinterpreting it as a threat, and have cut
their communication with the other pod sites,
going off the grid and offline.
Louise insists that this will only worsen
the situation and they need to communicate
with each other.
She runs off with Ian to reenter the pod.
Afraid of the impending threat, several soldiers
at the pod have formed a mutiny, carrying
several boxes of explosives and placing them
in the room, set to detonate in ten minutes.
Louise and Ian arrive and one of the soldiers
tries to stop them, but they eventually let
them go, despite knowing that the bomb will
kill them.
Louise and Ian enter the room to talk to Abbott
and Costello, completely unaware of the bomb
sitting several feet away from them.
Louise asks them if they are offering the
humans something.
The heptapods reply with words like technology,
visitors, and friends.
She then asks them to give the technology
now.
Suddenly, Abbott starts tapping on the glass.
Unbeknownst to them, Webber has sent security
to arrest the rogue soldiers.
Back in the room, Abbott keeps tapping on
the glass.
Louise walks forward and thinks Abbott wants
her to write on the screen.
She places both palms on the glass and begins
writing together with Abbott.
While in the middle of it, she dreams of her
daughter again, setting her off to sleep and
holding her hand.
After they finish writing, Castello jets off,
leaving hundreds of symbols on the screen
all at once.
They look back outside, hearing gunshots.
As the time ticks down to zero, Abbott forces
them outside of the room just as the bombs
explode and the room closes.
Louise and Ian are thrown into the antechamber,
unconscious but alive.
Louise wakes up and finds herself in Dr. Kettler’s
office with a concussion.
They have survived the blast and Kettler informs
them of the rogue soldiers.
She looks for Ian and finds him in the main
room with Webber and the rest of the team.
She tells them that they have to go back and
explain to the heptapods what happened.
He says that it’s impossible because his
orders have now changed.
They need to evacuate and prepare for retaliation.
Just then, a rumbling interrupts their conversation.
The team runs outside and sees the pod lifting
itself several miles higher from the ground.
Later that night, China officially declares
war against the aliens, urging several other
countries to do the same.
Louise and Ian continue to decode the heptapods’
last message.
As they discuss, Louise’s daughter enters
her mind again.
She’s a young teenager now and she’s asking
Louise about a certain term that means two
parties make a deal and both get something
out of it.
Back at the site, Louise wakes up from her
dream and learns that Ian has made a breakthrough.
He says that the symbol for time is everywhere.
He then calculates the amount of negative
space in the message and concludes that it
means “one of twelve.”
Louise presents this discovery to the council,
saying that the message that the heptapods
gave them is one of twelve and that they need
to communicate with the other sites to piece
the twelve messages together.
Agent Halpern interrupts her and tells her
that it’s no use because they’re blacked
out and everyone is preparing for conflict.
He then plays a recording taken from Russia.
The aliens gave their final message, “There
is no time.
Many become one.”
The recording is then cut off by gunshots.
Louise insists on her theory but Halpern remains
hostile, asking how they are going to convince
the other sites to share their data.
Ian pipes in, saying they offer their data
in return, making it a non-zero-sum game.
Louise picks this up and remembers this from
the conversation with her daughter.
As Louise listens to the men argue in the
room, she zones out and leaves.
There’s not enough time anymore and she
must take the matters into her own hands.
She walks to the pod and surprisingly, the
pod sends a vessel down.
She enters the vessel and is engulfed in a
fog-like state.
She struggles for a minute to breathe before
her lungs stabilize.
As the vessel opens, she finds herself in
the room behind the glass wall filled with
a similar fog.
Costello approaches her and Louise learns
that Abbott has died from the explosion.
She breaks down and apologizes on behalf of
humanity.
She then asks the heptapod to send a message
to the other sites.
Costello says that Louise already has the
weapon and that she should use it.
She doesn’t understand and asks their purpose.
Costello says their purpose is to help humanity
because, in 3,000 years, they will need humanity’s
help.
She asks them how they can know the future.
Just then, her daughter enters her mind again.
They’re at the same field, playing at the
same creek.
Louise looks confused and finally asks Costello
who the child is.
It turns out that Louise’s dreams of her
daughter weren’t dreams, but premonitions
of the future.
With that last message, Costello disappears
into the fog.
Louise is ejected as the pod turns sideways.
A convoy approaches her and Ian wraps a blanket
around her.
Just as she’s being put in the car, she
has another premonition.
She’s standing at the lake with her daughter.
She asks Louise why her father doesn’t look
at her the same way anymore.
Louise feels conflicted but tells her it’s
because she told her father something that
he wasn’t prepared for, something about
a rare and incurable disease.
In the present, Louise just realizes why her
future husband left her.
Meanwhile, all the pods around the world have
also turned sideways and the entire planet
is preparing for global war.
As Louise wanders through the site, she has
another premonition.
Her future daughter asks her why her name
is Hannah.
Louise tells her that her name is special
because it’s a palindrome, which means if
it’s spelled backward, it will still say
“Hannah.”
In her vision, she also sees herself publishing
a book about the heptapods’ universal language
and teaching the language to other humans.
She finally realizes the heptapods’ true
purpose.
Their weapon is their language and they shared
all of their language with humanity.
Their language opens up time and once you
learn it, you begin to perceive time the way
they do, in a non-linear state, so that you
can see what’s to come.
She shares her discovery with Ian and Webber,
but Webber tells her that the mission’s
over.
Outside, Louise has another premonition.
This time she’s attending a gala at the
United Nations.
General Shang approaches her and says that
he only attended because he wanted to meet
her.
He tells her that 18 months ago, she did something
even his superiors were unable to do and changed
his mind.
He continues to say that she called him on
his private number.
Louise is confused and says that she doesn’t
know his private number, but the general whips
out his phone and shows the number to her.
General Shang tells her that now she knows.
He feels that it was important that he shows
her that number despite not knowing the reason
why.
He then tells her that she told him something
that he will never forget.
She told the general his wife’s dying words.
At the present time, it dawns on Louise the
thing that she has to do to stop this global
war.
She ventures back to the site and gets ahold
of Agent Halpern’s satellite phone.
She calls General Shang’s private number.
This alerts security and they send several
soldiers to confront her.
Louise evades capture and hides in the disinfection
room.
General Shang answers the call and she tells
him her purpose.
Ian joins her in the room and shields her
from the soldiers.
She finally tells General Shang her message
and he receives it.
The call is a success and she puts her hands
up in the air, surrendering to security.
Suddenly, China pulls out from the attack
and the other countries follow.
The 12 sites then agree to share their data
and complete the pieces of the puzzles together.
With humanity working as one, the pods begin
to elevate and disappear into outer space,
just as quickly as they have arrived.
Louise and Ian stand outside as they watch
the site evacuate.
She asks him if he would change things if
he could see his whole life from start to
finish.
He tells her that the most surprising thing
that has ever happened in his life was not
meeting the heptapods, but rather, it was
meeting her.
He then declares his love for her.
Louise looks at him, knowing that this is
the face of her future husband, and reciprocates
his love with an embrace.
Even though Louise knows what’s going to
happen in the future, them getting married,
giving birth to Hannah, and Hannah passing
away, she embraces it fully and whole-heartedly,
despite knowing that Ian will eventually leave
them.